README.md, before:


# cpp-sandbox

This is a repository containing some C++ code I developed.
It uses some C++17 features (some others are missing from mingw).
Tests are run with Catch and can be used as a poor documentation.
Here are the copyable includes, sorted by usefulness or interest :

### Reusable includes :

 - movable_function : A wrapper which can accept any movable callable, with allocation optimisation for function pointers. It is useful for remplacing std::function when the functions dosen't need to be copied.

 - make_string : A generic function which will attempt to conveft any type to a string. In particular, it works for tuples or pairs, iterables, and types with a to_string function (std::to_string i also tested).

 - slot_map : A structure which can add and remove elements from their id in O(1), and store them in contiguous memory. It is build upon std::vector.
 
 - spsc_queue : Wait-free single producer & single consumer queue. This class do not check for overflow (it have a good chance to throw in debug mode).

 - transactional : A lock-free linked list storing successives versions of a value copied when modified. It allows to get the value without wait. Values destructions are deferred to a 'clear' function.
      
 - pod_vector : A fast version of std::vecto which doesn't construct or destroy it's elements (useful for bytes array for exemple).

 - monad : Let compose functions for monad types, with the operator '|' in the namespace sc::monad_operator. These types can be added by specializing the 'monad_traits' template class. std::optional and containers (iterables and with emplace, emplace_back or emplace_front) have a monad_trait specialized.

 - stack_array : Array of dynamic size created on the stack, with a similar interface to std::array.

 - stack_allocator : A fast allocator with an allocated area which can only grow.

 - pointer_iterators : Template class helpers to create pointer iterators for collections with continuous storage.
          
 - fast_optional : A template class used to define fast, compile-time optional with a type and the type value considered 'empty'.

 - fluent_collections : Functional-style wrapper of "collections", which are template classes with functions begin(), end() and insert(iterator) that behave gently. Not performant, see 'lazy_ranges' include.

 - flag_enmus : Namespace with bit operators for enum classes.

### Incomplete includes :

 - serializer_span : Binary serialization functions using non-owned memory with a simple implementation for the client, and, if the type allows it, deducing the serialized size at compile-time. The core is functional, but it need some basic types, optimizations and traits to be mature.

 - type_traits : Few traits, for detecting iterators, iterables, and 'emplace-able' classes (with emplace_front, emplace_back or emplace). Need to recognize built_in arrays as iterables.

 - mpsc_queue : Lock-free multiple producer & single (wait-free) consumer queue. This class is safe from overflow, but can then block producers. Probable culprit of rare slowdowns in tests.

 - compact_map : A map built upon std::vector for cache efficiency (for iterations and search). It lacks some map functionality.

 - terminal : Object representing the terminal, used to write, display information, wait and interpret user commands. It is almost empty for now.

 - lazy_ranges : A version of fluent_collections with lazy evaluation. Need better performances (mostly by removing intermediate optionals).

 - block_allocator : A fast allocator for one object at a time of a fixed class. Need to accept other classes with acceptable alignment and size constraints.

 - compact_map : A map stored in continuous memory (built on std::vector). std::bad_alloc in release mode.

 - eval : A function which compile and launch a process with the source code given. This is not cross-platform nor efficient, it does not have interoperability with another (or the current) process, and it's steps cannot be separated.

 - thread_pool : A thread pool which can executes given tasks. orking, but miss some functionnalities.

Commit message:

changed stack_allocator (now with guard and better API), added non-precise stack_tracker, renommed bytes_literals -> bytes_units

README.md, after:


# cpp-sandbox

This is a repository containing some C++ code I developed.
It uses some C++17 features (some others are missing from mingw).
Tests are run with Catch and can be used as a poor documentation.
Here are the copyable includes, sorted by usefulness or interest :

### Reusable includes :

 - movable_function : A wrapper which can accept any movable callable, with allocation optimisation for function pointers. It is useful for remplacing std::function when the functions dosen't need to be copied.

 - make_string : A generic function which will attempt to conveft any type to a string. In particular, it works for tuples or pairs, iterables, and types with a to_string function (std::to_string i also tested).

 - slot_map : A structure which can add and remove elements from their id in O(1), and store them in contiguous memory. It is build upon std::vector.
 
 - spsc_queue : Wait-free single producer & single consumer queue. This class do not check for overflow (it have a good chance to throw in debug mode).

 - transactional : A lock-free linked list storing successives versions of a value copied when modified. It allows to get the value without wait. Values destructions are deferred to a 'clear' function.
      
 - pod_vector : A fast version of std::vecto which doesn't construct or destroy it's elements (useful for bytes array for exemple).

 - monad : Let compose functions for monad types, with the operator '|' in the namespace sc::monad_operator. These types can be added by specializing the 'monad_traits' template class. std::optional and containers (iterables and with emplace, emplace_back or emplace_front) have a monad_trait specialized.

 - stack_array : Array of dynamic size created on the stack, with a similar interface to std::array.

 - stack_allocator : A fast allocator with an allocated area which can only grow.

 - pointer_iterators : Template class helpers to create pointer iterators for collections with continuous storage.
          
 - fast_optional : A template class used to define fast, compile-time optional with a type and the type value considered 'empty'.

 - fluent_collections : Functional-style wrapper of "collections", which are template classes with functions begin(), end() and insert(iterator) that behave gently. Not performant, see 'lazy_ranges' include.
 
 - bytes_units : Contains an enumeration for ratios and literal operators for units between kilobytes and zettabytes.

 - flag_enums : Namespace with bit operators for enum classes.

### Incomplete includes :

 - serializer_span : Binary serialization functions using non-owned memory with a simple implementation for the client, and, if the type allows it, deducing the serialized size at compile-time. The core is functional, but it need some basic types, optimizations and traits to be mature.

 - type_traits : Few traits, for detecting iterators, iterables, and 'emplace-able' classes (with emplace_front, emplace_back or emplace). Need to recognize built_in arrays as iterables.

 - mpsc_queue : Lock-free multiple producer & single (wait-free) consumer queue. This class is safe from overflow, but can then block producers. Probable culprit of rare slowdowns in tests.

 - compact_map : A map built upon std::vector for cache efficiency (for iterations and search). std::bad_alloc in release mode.

 - lazy_ranges : A version of fluent_collections with lazy evaluation. Need better performances (mostly by removing intermediate optionals).

 - block_allocator : A fast allocator for one object at a time of a fixed class. Need to accept other classes with acceptable alignment and size constraints.

 - thread_pool : A thread pool which can executes given tasks. Working, but miss some functionnalities. Triggered one segmentation fault.

 - terminal : Object representing the terminal, used to write, display information, wait and interpret user commands. It is almost empty for now.

 - eval : A function which compile and launch a process with the source code given. This is not cross-platform nor efficient, it does not have interoperability with another (or the current) process, and it's steps cannot be separated.

 - stack_tracker : Static functions : one initialize the tracker with the stack capacity and the other determine if a memory address belongs to the stack. Not precise, may fail.
